+++
title = "Long-Term Follow-up of Blunt Cerebrovascular Injuries: Does Time Heal All Wounds?"
date = "2016-01-01"
publication_types = ["2"]
authors = ["Adriana Laser", "Brandon R. Bruns", "Joseph A. Kufera", "Andrew I. Kim", "Timothy Feeney", "Ronald B. Tesoriero", "Margaret H. Lauerman", "Clint W. Sliker", "Thomas M. Scalea", "Deborah M. Stein"]
publication = "In: Journal of Trauma and Acute Care Surgery, (81), 6, _pp. 1063--1069_, https://doi.org/10.1097/TA.0000000000001223"
abstract = "BACKGROUND: The short-term natural history of blunt cerebrovascular injuries (BCVIs) has been previously described in the literature, but the purpose of this study was to analyze long-term serial follow-up and lesion progression of BCVI. METHODS: This is a single institution's retrospective review of a prospectively collected database over four years (2009\\textendash2013). All patients with a diagnosis of BCVI by computed tomographic (CT) scan were identified, and injuries were graded based on modified Denver scale. Management followed institutional algorithm: initial whole-body contrast-enhanced CT scan, followed by CT angiography at 24 to 72 hours, 5 to 7 days, 4 to 6 weeks, and 3 months after injury. All follow-up imaging, medication management, and clinical outcomes through 6 months following injury were recorded. RESULTS: There were 379 patients with 509 injuries identified. Three hundred eighty-one injuries were diagnosed as BCVI on first CT (Grade 1 injuries, 126; Grade 2 injuries, 116; Grade 3 injuries, 69; and Grade 4 injuries, 70); 100 ``indeterminate'' on whole-body CT; 28 injuries were found in patients reimaged only for lesions detected in other vessels. Sixty percent were male, mean (SD) age was 46.5 (19.9)years, 65\\% were white, and 62\\% were victims of a motor vehicle crash. Most frequently, Grade 1 injuries were resolved at all subsequent time points. Up to 30\\% of Grade 2 injuries worsened, but nearly 50\\% improved or resolved. Fortysix percent of injuries originally not detected were subsequently diagnosed as Grade 3 injuries. Greater than 70\\% of all imaged Grade 3 and Grade 4 injuries remained unchanged at all subsequent time points. CONCLUSIONS:"
abstract_short = ""
image_preview = ""
selected = false
projects = []
tags = []
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""
math = true
highlight = true
[header]
image = ""
caption = ""
+++
